---
title: Utilities
---

# `util`

This module contains some basic utilities to locate Ren'Py distributables and to find the macOS
    version of a VN.

## `deprecated(message: str = "")`

Mark a function as deprecated.

This is used as a decorator to mark some functions as deprecated without needing to import
warnings repeatedly. The function that uses the decorator will be called but will display
a deprecation warning with a supplied message.

Arguments:

- message (str): The message or reason for deprecation. Defaults to a generic statement
  generated by the function's name.

Returns:

- warnable (Callable): The function with a warning wrapper.

## `file_exists(directory: str = os.getcwd(), item: str = '') -> Optional[str]`

Determine whether a file exists in a certain directory.

!!! warning Deprecated
    This function is being deprecated in favor of the utilities provided in the `os` module.

Args:

- dir (str): The directory to search in.
- item (str): The item to search for in the directory.
  Returns:
- fname (str): File name if it's found or `None` if it doesn't find anything

## `verify_built_files(directory: str = os.getcwd()) -> Optional[str]`
Determine if the Ren'Py distributions have been built already by looking for the `-dists` directory.

This function will check if the directory exists in itself.

!!! warning Deprecated
    This function is no longer supported.

Args:
- dir (str): The directory to search.

Returns:
- isdir (bool): Whether the directory exists or not.

## `find_mac_build(directory: str) -> bool`
Determine whether the macOS builds have been created.

!!! warning Deprecated
    This function is no longer supported.

Args:
- dir (str): The directory to search in

Returns:
- isfile (bool): Whether the macOS ZIP file exists.